Where to store files

gcode-start.txt, gcode-end.txt and seurat.ss must all go in the same folder that you can chose

script-fu-pixellate-to file
This must be placed in the Gimp - script folder C:...\AppData\Roaming\GIMP\2.10\scripts

To enable access to it open Gimp.

Under the Filters tab click Script-Fu -> Refresh Scripts


Options

Image Text File Options

You MUST add 3 numbers at the beginning of the file each separated by a space.

First number:
This number comprises 3 sets of options based on the hundreds, tens and units of its value

Hundreds: adds a layer(s) of backing in the colour specified
1 cyan
2 magenta
3 yellow
4 key
any other value including numbers less than 100 provides a separate ...b.obj file

please note options 1-4 currrently provide a poor result and if chosen this must be the last colour printed

Tens: specifies the thickness of the backing
1 even (including 0 or numbers less than 10) 1 layer 0.2mm
2 odd 2 layers 0.4mm thick specifically this is for cheat mode where you only print cyan, magenta and yellow and then a key colour backing

Units:
1 even an rgb data file
2 odd an rgba data file*

You must include a number. Type 0 for all defaults

*This is determined when converting the hex file into text. For RGBa the file will show FF for every 4th byte i.e offset 03, 07 etc.

Second number
Image height in pixels

Third number
Image width in pixels

These two sizes can be found in Gimp under Image->Image Properties.
They MUST be entered in reverse order

Save the Image Text File with a 3 character extension e.g. .txt

Gcode-start.txt Options

Save a copy of this file under a different name.

You can damage your printer if you alter these settings.

You may alter the values for:
res - the size of each pixel (your res X width must be less than your bed size x-axis and res X height less than bed size y-axis)
res default 0.35
lo-speed - the lowest speed at which the printer will print (60 = 1mm/s)
lo-speed default 60
speed-factor - how much faster the printer will print connected pixels
speed-factor - 0.1
top-speed - the fastest the printer will print
top-speed default 1200
o-flow - the distance from the edge of a pixel the printer will start to print in mm (cf Flow Math in the Slic3r manual)
o-flow default 0.1
flow-rate - standard extrusion flow-rate
flow-rate default 1.00
dwell - the length of time the nozzle will remain stationary printing a single pixel in ms
dwell default 75
p-flow-rate - flow rate for pixel printing
p-flow-rate default 0.95

Options for different PLAs
To vary settings for different colours (brands) of filament you will have to run seurat again for each setting, renamimg the files you wish to keep between runs

DO NOT remove the semi-colons on these lines,.
DO NOT add anything and LEAVE the spaces after each colon.

Temperature settings

nozzle temp - change the M104 and M109 lines
bed temp - change the M140 line

To vary temp settings for different colours change the gcode in, say, Notepad directly after running seurat.

Save the file without changing its name.